oh hi during the Renaissance
European scientists and artists strongly
believed the human body was the most
wondrous and sacred thing in the world
and to this day we only find more and
more evidence that they were completely
right check it out for yourself
number one the strongest muscle it was
believed for a while that the tongue
will be pound for pound every other
muscle in the human body but here is
another muscle you train regularly and
it's the real champ your jaw muscle or
masseter it provides 200 pounds of
pressure and in the world-record case
all 975 pounds to your brain is the best
video editor your eyes are constantly
taking separate pictures and moving all
the time to make a full image of your
surroundings you don't notice that
because your brain makes it all smooth
by stabilizing the image and editing
different fragments into one seamless
flow 3 your body is the whole world
don't like the number on the scales give
yourself a break from 2 to 5 pounds of
all your body weight doesn't even belong
to you but to microscopic life that
lives inside us off in the human mouth
alone more bacteria live than people on
earth but don't panic it's absolutely
normal and most of these tiny micro
folks are entirely harmless for your
unique and more than one way there are
no two identical brains in the world
brain structure highly depends on
conditions in which it develops and
grows and therefore we all have
something individual to us even on a
biological level and just like your
fingers your tongue too has a unique
print on it that won't be like any other
in the world
5 hungry hungry grey matter the brain
takes only 2% of your whole body weight
but it's such a powerhouse that it
requires 20% of the energy you consume
even while you sleep in fact it's even
more active well it seems like you're
just resting or wandering in dreamland 6
half of you is your brain if you stretch
DNA molecules from all cells in your
body the line will be twice as long as
the diameter of the solar system one DNA
molecule will be six-and-a-half feet
long and it's kind of impressive for
something packed in the tiny fraction of
a cell and here is the most surprising
thing around 50% of all the genes in
your DNA contain encoded information
about your brain structure 98% of your
body takes the other half of the genes 7
humans shed skin - and we're kind of
impressive at that - we just don't do it
in the same way snakes do 1 million
that's a rounded-up number of skin cells
your body sheds away every day in fact
about 80% of all the dust in your house
is made of the stuff your skin doesn't
need anymore
is 8 your brain thinks roller-coaster is
trying to poison you ok it may seem like
feeling sick after a roller coaster ride
or after playing in VR is just what
happens just deal with it but it turns
out our brains are simply not adapted to
this kind of dizziness and perceive it
as the first sign that you probably ate
something bad this is why you feel sick
the brain sends signals to your stomach
to make it get rid of some toxic stuff
inside even if there is nothing in it 9
sugar bones bones and baby fists are not
fully formed until they turn 10 that's
because in infancy it's very important
for fists to be elastic so a lot of bone
tissue is replaced by cartilage in this
period babies crawling not only legs but
hands too and that's a lot of pressure
for them if babies had their fists fully
formed that would be dangerous 10 sweat
has no smell surprise it's not the sweat
that launches you to the bathroom after
a good workout it's the microscopic
bacteria on your skin that interact with
it
don't blame them some of the skin
bacteria aren't good for us they compete
with other kinds of bacteria for a place
to live in and scare them off saving you
from something like acne or some other
kind of
affection 11 pinkie toe is on its way to
becoming history pinkie toe lost all of
its functionality a while ago precisely
when humankind started wearing shoes it
served the purpose of keeping balance
while walking barefoot but today it only
stubs on furniture from time to time
sometime in the future and may well be
that we lose pinky toes through the
evolutionary process so this little
piggy will go wee wee wee all the way
home
no more ah twelve hair and nails go
faster on one side of your body hair and
nails grow faster if they get more
nutrition with blood another fact our
bodies aren't symmetrical at all one
side of your body has more blood vessels
than the other so hair and nails get
more stuff on one side 213 adjustable
volume when you scream or sneeze your
brain tries to protect you from the loud
noise it automatically turns down the
volume in your head try it for yourself
just don't scream too loud for no reason
that's weird
14 people are still partly predators
it's not only canine teeth that we
inherited from our carnivorous ancestors
our senses are also similar to theirs
when we're hungry all our senses get
sharper you see in better detail here
better and most importantly smell better
too I mean with your nose but as soon as
we're full we relax because our body
releases a lot of hormones of happiness
called serotonin it makes your senses
dull and turns off the predator inside
you 15
sneezing makes you happy another way to
make yourself happy without eating too
much is to sneeze another happy hormone
and orphan is released with each achoo
you may this is why you may have a funny
feeling after sneezing several times
straight endorphins also help to trigger
the immune system to fight any bad kind
of bacteria so it's not only for fun you
know
sixteen your brain can't be perfect but
it can deal with it there are new runs
in the human brain that can catch any
misguided signals or errors your brain
makes they stop the signal and override
it into a correct one this is why you've
never experienced any problems with this
17-2 compact but powerful filtering
stations human kidneys have two million
little filters total and are capable of
filtering all the blood in the human
body several times per day they're
constantly filtering out any possible
toxins that may be in your blood 18
smart fingers until quite recently
people believe that the only way our
body deals with sensory information is
by processing it in brain centers but
today we know that neurons in the skin
of our fingertips are capable of
processing information too it's not
entirely clear how detailed this info is
but the fact itself is quite stunning
nineteen yawning is contagious for a
reason we all know that if someone
nearby yawns you immediately want to
follow suit and there's no mystery in it
yawning is a social reflex that appeared
as a way for social animals to signal
that it's time to take a rest yawning
also helps to ventilate the lungs and
make your body relax overall 20 you
can't tickle yourself when someone
tickles you your brain gets really
troubled you see a tickling sensation is
meant to warn you that something crawls
on your skin such as a bug a spider or
whatnot the natural reaction is to panic
of course but if you are aware that it's
not some kind of creepy crawly you will
just break into laughter and here also
lies the reasons why you can't tickle
yourself
you simply can't fool yourself like that
21 where is your nose most of the time
you can't see your own nose but our eyes
are placed in such a way they should
actually see it you simply don't notice
it the reason is your brain that can
just edit it out for your convenience
22 you can smell with your tongue
apparently your nose doesn't smell all
on
so your tongue has the same kind of
sensitive cells that provide you
information about the smell of food you
eat ah you can never be to inform 23
your nose warms up the air and it's not
the only reason why breathing through
the nose is much safer than through your
mouth your nose is a filtering station a
heater and moisturizer all at the same
time so when mom told you not to breathe
through the mouth she was absolutely
right
24 you kind of live in the past all the
time it takes 13 milliseconds for your
eyes to perceive an image and around 50
milliseconds for your ears to hear
something so you can't always be up to
date it's just impossible hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right hand remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]